abstract
A Java keyword used in a class definition to specify that a class is not to be instantiated, but rather inherited by other classes.
AWT 
A collection of graphical user interface (GUI) components that were implemented using native-platform versions of the components. 
access  
How interactions with resources are limited to collections of users or programs for the purpose of enforcing integrity, confidentiality, or availability constraints. 

actual 
The arguments specified in a particular method call. See also formal 

API
Application Programming Interface. The specification of how a programmer writing an application accesses the behavior and state of classes and objects. 

applet
A component that typically executes in a Web browser, but can execute in a variety of other applications or devices that support the applet programming model. 

argument
A data item specified in a method call. An argument can be a literal value, a variable, or an expression. 

array
A collection of data items, all of the same type, in which each item's position is uniquely designated by an integer. 

ASCII
American Standard Code for Information Interchange. A standard assignment of 7-bit numeric codes to characters. See also Unicode. 

bean
A reusable software component that conforms to certain design and naming conventions. 

binary 
An operator that has two arguments. 

bit
The smallest unit of information in a computer, with a value of either 0 or 1. 


block
In the Java programming language, any code between matching braces. Example: { x = 1; }. 

boolean
Refers to an expression or variable that can have only a true or false value. 

break
A Java keyword used to resume program execution at the statement immediately following the current statement. 

byte
A sequence of eight bits. Java provides a corresponding byte type. 

bytecode
Machine-independent code generated by the Java compiler and executed by the Java interpreter. 

case
A Java keyword that defines a group of statements to begin executing if a value specified matches the value defined by a preceding switch keyword.

casting
Explicit conversion from one data type to another. 

catch
A Java keyword used to declare a block of statements to be executed in the event that a Java exception, or run time error, occurs in a preceding try block.

char
A Java keyword used to declare a variable of type character.

class
 a type that defines the implementation of a particular kind of object.

classpath
An environmental variable which tells the Java virtual machine1 and Java technology-based applications where to find the class libraries 

client
a process that remotely accesses resources of a compute server, such as compute power and large memory capacity. 


comment
In a program, explanatory text that is ignored by the compiler. 

compiler
A program to translate source code into code to be executed by a computer. 

constructor
A method that creates an object. 

continue
A Java keyword used to resume program execution at the end of the current loop.

declaration
A statement that establishes an identifier and associates attributes with it

default
A Java keyword optionally used after all case conditions in a switch statement. 

double
A Java keyword used to define a variable .

else
A Java keyword used to execute a block of statements 


encapsulation
The localization of knowledge within a module.

enum
A Java keyword used to declare an enumerated type. 


exception
An event during program execution that prevents the program from continuing normally; generally, an error. 

exception handler
A block of code that reacts to a specific type of exception. 

extends
Do this to classes to add functionality, 

field
A data member of a class. Unless specified otherwise, a field is not static. 

final
A Java keyword. You define an entity once and cannot change it or derive from it later.

float
A Java keyword used to define a floating point number variable. 

for
A Java keyword used to declare a loop that reiterates statements. 

formal 
The parameters specified in the definition of a particular method.  

hexadecimal
The numbering system that uses 16 as its base. 

identifier
The name of an item in a program written in the Java programming language. 

if
A Java keyword used to conduct a conditional test

implements
A Java keyword included in the class declaration 

import
A Java keyword used at the beginning of a source file that can specify classes  without including their package names in the reference. 

inheritance
The concept of classes automatically containing the variables and methods defined in their supertypes. 

instance
An object of a particular class. 

instance 
Any item  that is associated with a particular object.

int
A Java keyword used to define a variable of type integer. 

interface
A Java keyword used to define a collection of method definitions and constant values.

interpreter
A module that alternately decodes and executes every statement in some body of code. 

Java
Sun's trademark for a set of technologies for creating and safely running software programs in both stand-alone and networked environments. 

keyword
these words are reserved by the language itself and therefore are not available as names for variables or methods. 

lexical
Pertaining to how the characters in source code are translated into tokens that the compiler can understand. 

linker
A module that builds an executable, complete program from component machine code modules. 

literal
The basic representation of any integer, floating point, or character value. 

local variable
A data item known within a block, but inaccessible to code outside the block. 

long
A Java keyword used to define a variable. 

member
A field or method of a class. 

method
A function defined in a class.

new
A Java keyword used to create an instance of a class. 

null
The null type has one value, the null reference, represented by the literal null, which is formed from ASCII characters.

object
 a programming unit consisting of data (instance variables) and functionality (instance methods). 

octal
The numbering system using 8 as its base, using the numerals 0-7 as its digits. 

overloading
Using one identifier to refer to multiple items in the same scope. 

overriding
Providing a different implementation of a method in a subclass of the class that originally defined the method. 

package
A group of types. 

peer
any functional unit in the same layer as another entity. 

pixel
The picture element on a display area

primitive 
A variable data type in which the variable's value is of the appropriate size and format for its type

private
A Java keyword used in a method or variable declaration. It signifies that the method or variable can only be accessed by other elements of its class. 

process
A virtual address space containing one or more threads. 

property
Characteristics of an object

protected
A Java keyword used in a method or variable declaration. It signifies that the method or variable can only be accessed by elements residing in its class, subclasses, or classes in the same package. 

public
A Java keyword used in a method or variable declaration. It signifies that the method or variable can be accessed by elements residing in other classes. 

raster
A two-dimensional rectangular grid of pixels. 

reference
A variable data type in which the variable's value is an address. 

return
A Java keyword used to finish the execution of a method. It can be followed by a value required by the method definition. 

scope
A characteristic of an identifier that determines where the identifier can be used. 

short
A Java keyword used to define a variable. 

static
A Java keyword used to define a variable as a class variable.

stream
 a byte-stream of data that is sent from a sender to a receiver.

subclass
A class that is derived from a particular class 

superclass
A class from which a particular class is derived

super
A Java keyword used to access members of a class inherited by the class in which it appears. 

switch
A Java keyword used to evaluate a variable that can later be matched with a value specified by the case keyword in order to execute a group of statements. 

Swing
A collection of graphical user interface (GUI) components 

this
A Java keyword that can be used to represent an instance of the class in which it appears. 

throws
A Java keyword used in method declarations that specify which exceptions are not handled within the method but rather passed to the next higher level of the program. 

try
A Java keyword that defines a block of statements that may throw a Java language exception. 

type
A class or interface. 

variable
An item of data named by an identifier.

void
A Java keyword used in method declarations to specify that the method does not return any value. 

while
A Java keyword used to declare a loop that iterates a block of statements. 

wrapper
An object that encapsulates and delegates to another object to alter its interface or behavior in some way. 



